--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is a blog post from wackomenace, the blog of Ruben Arakelyan.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Why a text blog?
================

For longer than I can remember, I have been interested in vintage technology.
Some might call it obsolete, outdated or just plain old-fashioned, but I see it
as something interesting, a hark back to the "good old days" of computing and a
reminder of how I used to experience the new world of computers and the
Internet.

As with everyone else during the late 2000s, I tended towards upgrades -
faster computers, more resources, larger websites with more features and a
sense of leaving the old world behind and moving to the 21st century. Maybe it
was the prevailing thought at the time, or the fact I was in my teens and 20s
when most people decide that everything done by adults older than them are
basic, convoluted and unnecessary.

Recently, however, I have been thinking more about what the world was like when
I was somewhat younger, and how I experienced it. Yes, we had dialup at home,
only allowed for a short period every evening. Yes, we used MSN Messenger to
keep in touch with friends from school. Yes, we visited websites on GeoCities,
downloading freeware (and sometimes warez). Yes, we even sometimes visited
newsgroups (already considered old at the time). Yes, it was limiting, and
our eyes were always on the future (imagine the excitement when we first got
broadband), but it was also exciting and freeing in its own way. Adverts
and tracking were much less than now, social networking was in its infancy
and everything wasn't a subscription service.

To someone in their teens or 20s today, all of that may sound horribly
old-fashioned, an "oldie" yearning for a simpler life without today's modern
distractions. To an extent, that may even be true - things were for the most
part simpler, more basic and easier to understand and use in the past than they
are now.

This is not to say that I'm some sort of technophobe, scared of merely looking
the wrong way at a smartphone lest it burst into flames. I still have all the
trappings of a modern life, whether that be a mobile phone, tablet, laptop or
cloud accounts with multiple providers of various services. I still find the
progress of technology fascinating and I want to keep up-to-date with it. For
every useless new technology, there is something else that is making a material
difference for the better to peoples' lives.

The part I dislike is the new technology that doesn't add anything demonstrably
better, or that is used in ways that do not add anything useful. New technology
that is inherently wasteful, duplicative or adopted just because it is new.
For years, I have been part of the problem, adopting these technologies
willingly and enthusiastically to stay ahead of the game and not thinking too
much about the longer-term consequences.

But as I have been reading more and more websites, blog posts and essays, they
all point towards the same, grim reality - a lot of this new technology, whether
it be hardware or software, doesn't add anything genuinely groundbreaking.
Instead, it merely makes incremental improvements at most, most of which we can
do without, and it does this while creating a sense of obsolescence and want
which feeds the circus of upgrades, which itself results in waste of an
unimaginable scale, most of it totally preventable.

As new devices arrive, software is of course developed that uses more and more
resources - resources that are available on these new devices but not on older
ones, adding even more fuel to the junk fire of old tech.

All this is a roundabout way of saying that while I can't control what happens
in the rest of the world, I am at least in control of my little area of the web
here. So the least I can do is to make sure I don't add to these issues by
creating something that requires the lowest of resources without the flash and
bang of something new.

Hence this text-based blog. Just plain text files, nothing more. Readable
anywhere by anything. Lightweight. Puts the words front and centre. What more
could one ask for?
